
File Types
==========
Chewbacca uses several common file types. Those are described below.

Fasta File
-----------
**common extensions: .fa, .fasta, .FASTA**
Read more here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FASTA_format

FastQ File
-----------
**extensions: .fq, .fastq, .FASTQ**
Read more here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FASTQ_format

Groups File
------------
**Common Extensions: .groups**

Groups files are used by Chewbacca to keep track of groups, or clusters, of relatively similar sequences.
Group files are generated or updated after each dereplication or clustering step.
A Groups file consists of one or more lines in the following format:

  *GROUPID <tab> SequenceID (<space> SequenceID)* ...

As an example:

	Hawaii_site1_0_ID111  Hawaii_site1_0_ID111 Hawaii_site1_0_ID112 Hawaii_site1_0_ID113
	Indonedia_site1_0_ID115       Indonedia_site1_0_ID115 Indonedia_site1_0_ID117
	Philippines_site1_0_ID119     philippines_site1_0_ID119

**Notes:**

1. The GROUPID for a group/cluster is a representative sequence from that cluster.
        This means that a sequenceId  will likely appear twice on a line (once as a GROUPID, and once in the sequence SequenceIds list).
2. See the "naming conventions" section for more info on chewbacca sequence naming standards.
   SequenceId are created using the a combination of sameple name, file offset,and the sequential number
   ex. Hawaii_site1_0_ID119.
   - Hawaii_site1: This sequence is from the Rodent_gut sample.
   - 0 file offset. When more than one sequence file is used, the files are annotated using different offesets.
     This makes it easy to track which sequences came from which file, which could potentially represent different
     sequencing runs, or other things of interest.

Samples File
-------------
**Common Extensions: .samples**

**extensions: .samples**

Samples files are used by Chewbacca to map sequence names to the the name of their respective sample names.
This file is generally written once, early on in the anylitical process, at the time of sequence renaming.
The primary purposes for writing this file are for annotation and construction of an OTU table at the end of the analysis.

A Samples file consists of one or more lines in the following format:

  *SequenceID <tab> SampleID*

**Example**

	Hawaii_site1_0_ID111 GUT_SAMPLE_21
	Hawaii_site1_0_ID112 GUT_SAMPLE_21
	Rodent_gutID113 GUT_SAMPLE_22
	Rodent_noseID115     NOSE_SAMPLE_1
	Rodent_stomachID115  STOMACH_SAMPLE_2

Note that more than one sample file is generated when sequences form asample are present in more than one files. In such case,
Each file is assigned the a different offet. Ex.: Rodent_gut_0.samples, Rodent_gut_1.samples, etc...


Barcodes file
--------------
**Common Extensions: .barcodes, .txt**

Barcodes files map the nucleotide prefixes used for multiplexing, to the samples they code for.  

A Samples file consists of one or more lines in the following format:

::

	<Sample_name> <tab> <barcode_sequence>

**Example**


	BALI_site_1          agacgc
	BALI_site_2          agtgta
	Hawaii_site_1        actagc

Adapters file
--------------
**Common Extensions: .adapters, .txt, .fa, .fasta**

Adapters files are fasta files that contain the sequencing adapters.
An Adapters file should be paired with an RC Adapters file, and should contain the same number of entries as its paired RC Adapters file.

**Example**

	>adapter1
	GGWACWGGWTGAACWGTWTAYCCYCC
	>adapter2
	TANACYTCNGGRTGNCCRAARAAYCA


RC Adapters file
-----------------
**Common Extensions: .adapters, .txt, .fa, .fasta**

RC Adapters files are fasta files that contain the Reverse-read adapters (Reverse-Complemented forward-read adapters) pyrosequencing adapters.
An RC Adapters file should be paired with an Adapters file, and should contain the same number of entries as its paired Adapters file.

**Example**

	>adapter1_RC
	TGRTTYTTYGGNCAYCCNGARGTNTA
	>adapter2_RC
	GGRGGRTAWACWGTTCAWCCWGTWCC

Tax file
---------
**Common Extensions: .tax, .out, .txt**

Tax files are condensed versions of `blast6 <http://www.drive5.com/usearch/manual/blast6out.html>`_   output files, detailing the match between a query sequence and a possible identification.
These files are generated by the :ref`id_OTU` command, and ingested by the :ref`annotate_OTU` command.

Given the blast6 output format, a Tax file consists of one or more lines in the following format:


	<query> <tab> <target> <tab> <id> <tab> <alnlen> <tab> <qcov>

**Example**


	BALI4606_0_ID1264_2	GBMAA1117-14	90.6	265	84.7	Animalia;Porifera;Demospongiae;Haplosclerida;Phloeodictyidae;;Calyx;Calyx podatypa
	BALI4462_0_ID921_1	GBCI5234-15	98.8	258	82.4	Animalia;Cnidaria;Anthozoa;Alcyonacea;Xeniidae;;Xenia;Xenia sp. 1 CSM2014
	BALI4673_0_ID837_1	KHA237-14	96.1	279	100.0	Animalia;Cnidaria;Anthozoa;Actiniaria;;;;

OTU Table
---------
**Common Extensions: .txt**

OTU tables are commonly used in Biological surveys to list OTU abundances in different samples.  

OTU tables consist of a header line in the following format:

	OTU <tab> <Samplename1> <tab> <Samplename2> <tab> <Samplename3> ...

followed by one or more lines (one per OTU) in the follwing format:

	<OTU_name> <tab> <Abundance at Samplename1> <tab> <Abundance at Samplename2> <tab> <Abundance at Samplename3>

**Example**


	OTU	Hawaii_site1	Indonesia_site2	...
	Rat_Gut_ID3	3	0	...
	Rat_Gut_ID25	1	1	...

Mapping file
------------
**Common Extensions: .mapping, .txt**

Mapping files are artifacts of renaming (via the :ref:`rename` command), and map old sequence ids to new sequence ids.  This allows users to use shorter and meaningful sequence ids, while still having access to the original sequence names.

A Mapping file consists of one or more lines in the following format:

::

	<old_sequence_name> <tab> <new_sequence_name>

**Example**

::

	M03292:26:000000000-AH6AG:1:1101:16896:1196	BALI4462_0_ID1
	M03292:26:000000000-AH6AG:1:1101:12506:1361	BALI4462_0_ID2
	M03292:26:000000000-AH6AG:1:1101:15278:1402	BALI4462_0_ID3
	M03292:26:000000000-AH6AG:1:1101:16930:1429	BALI4462_0_ID4

